# Chitu 

Chitu is a serverless computing runtime that allows developers to build stateful workflows with differentiable data types, an incremental computation abstraction. In contrast to external storage services, differentiable data types provide mutable state sharing and low-latency communication. With Chitu and differentiable data types, later functions can begin processing as soon as part of the data generated by earlier functions is available, allowing functions to overlap in a pipeline and reducing the end-to-end execution time of the workflow.

## Contents

`deploy` contains the deployment scripts and manual for the Chitu system on Kubernetes and AWS Lambda.

`lib-rust` contains the user programming library in Rust. Rather, the detailed implementation of the state agent server is also in this directory.

`coordinator` contains an OpenFaaS function which coordinates serverless functions in Chitu workflows.

`agent-http` contains a template named `golang-agent` for OpenFaaS functions which runs the state agent as a daemon service.

`experiments` contains the scripts and results of the experiments.

`examples` contains several Chitu example functions.

`lib-go` (deprecated) contains the user programming library in Go and and old, deprecated implementation of the state agent server.

`lib-python` contains the user programming library in Python.

`lib-cpp` contains the user programming library in C++.

## Deployment

You can find instructions for deploying the Chitu system on your local Kubernetes cluster in the [deployment](deploy/openfaas/README.md). The deployment on AWS Lambda with limited ability is also available in the [deployment](deploy/lambda/README.md). 

## Examples

Once Chitu is deployed successfully, you can try the examples in the [examples](examples/README.md) directory. If you have Rust installed on your machine, you can also check the tests in [tests](lib-rust/chitu/chitu/tests).

## License

The Chitu Project is licensed under the Apache v2 License.